This package was put together by David Kimdon <dwhedon@debian.org>.
Current maintainers are Peter Samuelson <peter@p12n.org>, Troy Heber
<troyh@debian.org> and Guilherme de S. Pastore <gpastore@debian.org>.

Source was downloaded from:
http://subversion.tigris.org/downloads/subversion-1.4.2.tar.gz

Several files from the "contrib" directory were removed as the
copyright/license situation is not quite clear.

Subversion is covered by the following license:

This license applies to all portions of Subversion which are not
externally-maintained libraries (e.g. apr/, apr-util/, and neon/).
Such libraries have their own licenses; we recommend you read them, as
their terms may differ from the terms below.

   * Debian note: This Debian package does not include those
     "externally-maintained libraries".

This is version 1 of this license.  It is also available online at
http://subversion.tigris.org/license-1.html.  If newer versions of
this license are posted there (the same URL, but with the version
number incremented: .../license-2.html, .../license-3.html, and so
on), you may use a newer version instead, at your option.

====================================================================
Copyright (c) 2000-2004 CollabNet.  All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution, if
any, must include the following acknowledgment: "This product includes
software developed by CollabNet (http://www.Collab.Net/)."
Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself, if
and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear.

4. The hosted project names must not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without prior written
permission. For written permission, please contact info@collab.net.

5. Products derived from this software may not use the "Tigris" name
nor may "Tigris" appear in their names without prior written
permission of CollabNet.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO EVENT SHALL COLLABNET OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
====================================================================

This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many
individuals on behalf of CollabNet.

Subversion also ships several scripts in the "contrib" directory which
are under other licenses:

Many files are licensed under the same terms as above:
server-side/svnmirror-test.sh, server-side/svnmirror.sh,
client-side/mucc.c, client-side/mucc-test.sh, client-side/wcgrep:

  Copyright 2005 Philip Martin <philip@codematters.co.uk>
  Copyright 2004 Ben Reser <ben@reser.org>

Several files are licensed under other terms:

client-side/asvn, client-side/psvn/psvn.el, client-side/svn-clean,
client-side/svn_apply_autoprops.py,
client-side/svn_export_empty_files.py, client-side/svncopy.pl.in,
client-side/svnmerge.py, client-side/svnmerge_test.py,
client-side/testsvncopy.pl.in, client-side/vc-svn.el:

  Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Ross Mark
  Copyright (C) 2002-2006 by Stefan Reichoer
  Copyright (C) 2004, 2005, 2006 Simon Perreault
  Copyright (C) 2005,2006 Blair Zajac <blair@orcaware.com>
  Copyright (c) 2005 Sony Pictures Imageworks Inc.
  Copyright (c) 2005, Giovanni Bajo
  Copyright (c) 2004-2005, Awarix, Inc.
  Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
  any later version.

  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with GNU Emacs; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
  the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor,
  Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
  INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
  BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS
  OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED
  AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
  LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY
  WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

  On Debian systems the GNU GPL v2 can be found in
  /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL-2.

contrib/client-side/svn-bisect:

  Copyright (C) 2008  Robert Millan

  This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

  On Debian systems the GNU GPL v3 can be found in
  /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL-3.

contrib/client-side/svn-viewdiff, contrib/client-side/svn-resolve,
contrib/hook-scripts/enforcer:

  Copyright (c) 2002,2005 Wilfredo Sanchez Vega <wsanchez@wsanchez.net>.
  All rights reserved.

  Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
  purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
  copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHORS DISCLAIM ALL
  WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
  DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR
  PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
  TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
  PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

contrib/client-side/svnmerge.sh:

  Copyright (c) 2004-2005, Awarix, Inc.
  All rights reserved.

  Subject to the following obligations and disclaimer of warranty,
  use and redistribution of this software, in source or object code
  forms, with or without modifications are expressly permitted by
  Awarix; provided, however, that:

     (i)  Any and all reproductions of the source or object code
          must include the copyright notice above and the following
          disclaimer of warranties; and
     (ii) No rights are granted, in any manner or form, to use
          Awarix trademarks, including the mark "AWARIX"
          on advertising, endorsements, or otherwise except as such
          appears in the above copyright notice or in the software.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS BEING PROVIDED BY AWARIX "AS IS", AND
  TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, AWARIX MAKES NO
  REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING
  THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY AND ALL IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE,
  OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.  AWARIX DOES NOT WARRANT, GUARANTEE,
  OR MAKE ANY REPRESENTATIONS REGARDING THE USE OF, OR THE RESULTS
  OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN TERMS OF ITS CORRECTNESS, ACCURACY,
  RELIABILITY OR OTHERWISE.  IN NO EVENT SHALL AWARIX BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES RESULTING FROM OR ARISING OUT OF ANY USE
  OF THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY DIRECT,
  INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
  DAMAGES, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES, LOSS OF
  USE, DATA OR PROFITS, HOWEVER CAUSED AND UNDER ANY THEORY OF
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
  (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF
  THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF AWARIX IS ADVISED OF
  THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

client-side/svn2cl:

  Copyright (C) 2004, 2005, 2006 Arthur de Jong.

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
  are met:
  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
     the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
     distribution.
  3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
     products derived from this software without specific prior
     written permission.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
  DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
  DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
  GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER
  IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
  OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
  IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

server-side/authz_svn_group.py:

  Copyright 2005 Branko Cibej <brane@xbc.nu>

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.

  On Debian systems the Apache License can be found in
  /usr/share/common-licenses/Apache-2.0.

client-side/svn_load_dirs/*:

  Copyright (c) 2002,2003,2004,2005,2006,2007,2009 Dolby.  All rights reserved.

  Licensed under the Academic Free License version 3.0, as found at
  http://www.opensource.org/licenses/academic.php:

  Academic Free License ("AFL") v. 3.0

  This Academic Free License (the "License") applies to any original
  work of authorship (the "Original Work") whose owner (the "Licensor")
  has placed the following licensing notice adjacent to the copyright
  notice for the Original Work:

      Licensed under the Academic Free License version 3.0

   1) Grant of Copyright License. Licensor grants You a worldwide,
      royalty-free, non-exclusive, sublicensable license, for the
      duration of the copyright, to do the following:
      a) to reproduce the Original Work in copies, either alone or as
         part of a collective work;
      b) to translate, adapt, alter, transform, modify, or arrange the
         Original Work, thereby creating derivative works ("Derivative
         Works") based upon the Original Work;
      c) to distribute or communicate copies of the Original Work and
         Derivative Works to the public, under any license of your
         choice that does not contradict the terms and conditions,
         including Licensor's reserved rights and remedies, in this
         Academic Free License;
      d) to perform the Original Work publicly; and
      e) to display the Original Work publicly.

   2) Grant of Patent License. Licensor grants You a worldwide,
      royalty-free, non- exclusive, sublicensable license, under patent
      claims owned or controlled by the Licensor that are embodied in
      the Original Work as furnished by the Licensor, for the duration
      of the patents, to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have made, and
      import the Original Work and Derivative Works.

   3) Grant of Source Code License. The term "Source Code" means the
      preferred form of the Original Work for making modifications to it
      and all available documentation describing how to modify the
      Original Work. Licensor agrees to provide a machine-readable copy
      of the Source Code of the Original Work along with each copy of
      the Original Work that Licensor distributes. Licensor reserves the
      right to satisfy this obligation by placing a machine-readable
      copy of the Source Code in an information repository reasonably
      calculated to permit inexpensive and convenient access by You for
      as long as Licensor continues to distribute the Original Work.

   4) Exclusions From License Grant. Neither the names of Licensor, nor
      the names of any contributors to the Original Work, nor any of
      their trademarks or service marks, may be used to endorse or
      promote products derived from this Original Work without express
      prior permission of the Licensor. Except as expressly stated
      herein, nothing in this License grants any license to Licensor's
      trademarks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets or any other
      intellectual property. No patent license is granted to make, use,
      sell, offer for sale, have made, or import embodiments of any
      patent claims other than the licensed claims defined in Section
      2. No license is granted to the trademarks of Licensor even if
      such marks are included in the Original Work. Nothing in this
      License shall be interpreted to prohibit Licensor from licensing
      under terms different from this License any Original Work that
      Licensor otherwise would have a right to license.

   5) External Deployment. The term "External Deployment" means the use,
      distribution, or communication of the Original Work or Derivative
      Works in any way such that the Original Work or Derivative Works
      may be used by anyone other than You, whether those works are
      distributed or communicated to those persons or made available as
      an application intended for use over a network. As an express
      condition for the grants of license hereunder, You must treat any
      External Deployment by You of the Original Work or a Derivative
      Work as a distribution under section 1(c).

   6) Attribution Rights. You must retain, in the Source Code of any
      Derivative Works that You create, all copyright, patent, or
      trademark notices from the Source Code of the Original Work, as
      well as any notices of licensing and any descriptive text
      identified therein as an "Attribution Notice." You must cause the
      Source Code for any Derivative Works that You create to carry a
      prominent Attribution Notice reasonably calculated to inform
      recipients that You have modified the Original Work.

   7) Warranty of Provenance and Disclaimer of Warranty. Licensor
      warrants that the copyright in and to the Original Work and the
      patent rights granted herein by Licensor are owned by the Licensor
      or are sublicensed to You under the terms of this License with the
      permission of the contributor(s) of those copyrights and patent
      rights. Except as expressly stated in the immediately preceding
      sentence, the Original Work is provided under this License on an
      "AS IS" BASIS and WITHOUT WARRANTY, either express or implied,
      including, without limitation, the warranties of non-infringement,
      merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. THE ENTIRE
      RISK AS TO THE QUALITY OF THE ORIGINAL WORK IS WITH YOU.  This
      DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY constitutes an essential part of this
      License. No license to the Original Work is granted by this
      License except under this disclaimer.

   8) Limitation of Liability. Under no circumstances and under no legal
      theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or
      otherwise, shall the Licensor be liable to anyone for any
      indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any
      character arising as a result of this License or the use of the
      Original Work including, without limitation, damages for loss of
      goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any
      and all other commercial damages or losses. This limitation of
      liability shall not apply to the extent applicable law prohibits
      such limitation.

   9) Acceptance and Termination. If, at any time, You expressly
      assented to this License, that assent indicates your clear and
      irrevocable acceptance of this License and all of its terms and
      conditions. If You distribute or communicate copies of the
      Original Work or a Derivative Work, You must make a reasonable
      effort under the circumstances to obtain the express assent of
      recipients to the terms of this License. This License conditions
      your rights to undertake the activities listed in Section 1,
      including your right to create Derivative Works based upon the
      Original Work, and doing so without honoring these terms and
      conditions is prohibited by copyright law and international
      treaty. Nothing in this License is intended to affect copyright
      exceptions and limitations (including "fair use" or "fair
      dealing"). This License shall terminate immediately and You may no
      longer exercise any of the rights granted to You by this License
      upon your failure to honor the conditions in Section 1(c).

  10) Termination for Patent Action. This License shall terminate
      automatically and You may no longer exercise any of the rights
      granted to You by this License as of the date You commence an
      action, including a cross-claim or counterclaim, against Licensor
      or any licensee alleging that the Original Work infringes a
      patent. This termination provision shall not apply for an action
      alleging patent infringement by combinations of the Original Work
      with other software or hardware.

  11) Jurisdiction, Venue and Governing Law. Any action or suit relating
      to this License may be brought only in the courts of a
      jurisdiction wherein the Licensor resides or in which Licensor
      conducts its primary business, and under the laws of that
      jurisdiction excluding its conflict-of-law provisions. The
      application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the
      International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. Any use of the
      Original Work outside the scope of this License or after its
      termination shall be subject to the requirements and penalties of
      copyright or patent law in the appropriate jurisdiction. This
      section shall survive the termination of this License.

  12) Attorneys' Fees. In any action to enforce the terms of this
      License or seeking damages relating thereto, the prevailing party
      shall be entitled to recover its costs and expenses, including,
      without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred
      in connection with such action, including any appeal of such
      action. This section shall survive the termination of this
      License.

  13) Miscellaneous. If any provision of this License is held to be
      unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent
      necessary to make it enforceable.

  14) Definition of "You" in This License. "You" throughout this
      License, whether in upper or lower case, means an individual or a
      legal entity exercising rights under, and complying with all of
      the terms of, this License. For legal entities, "You" includes any
      entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control
      with you. For purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the
      power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of
      such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership
      of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii)
      beneficial ownership of such entity.

  15) Right to Use. You may use the Original Work in all ways not
      otherwise restricted or conditioned by this License or by law, and
      Licensor promises not to interfere with or be responsible for such
      uses by You.

  16) Modification of This License. This License is Copyright © 2005
      Lawrence Rosen. Permission is granted to copy, distribute, or
      communicate this License without modification. Nothing in this
      License permits You to modify this License as applied to the
      Original Work or to Derivative Works. However, You may modify the
      text of this License and copy, distribute or communicate your
      modified version (the "Modified License") and apply it to other
      original works of authorship subject to the following conditions:
      (i) You may not indicate in any way that your Modified License is
      the "Academic Free License" or "AFL" and you may not use those
      names in the name of your Modified License; (ii) You must replace
      the notice specified in the first paragraph above with the notice
      "Licensed under <insert your license name here>" or with a notice
      of your own that is not confusingly similar to the notice in this
      License; and (iii) You may not claim that your original works are
      open source software unless your Modified License has been
      approved by Open Source Initiative (OSI) and You comply with its
      license review and certification process.
