.TH NTP.CONF 5 "2008-04-09" "Debian" "The Network Time Protocol (NTP) Distribution"
.SH NAME
ntp.conf \- NTP server configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
ntp.conf
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Ordinarily, \fBntpd\fR reads the \fIntp.conf\fR configuration file at startup 
time in order to determine the synchronization sources and operating modes.  
It is also possible to specify a working, although limited, configuration 
entirely on the command line, obviating the need for a configuration file.  
This may be particularly useful when the local host is to be configured as a 
broadcast/multicast client, with all peers being determined by listening to 
broadcasts at run time.

Usually, the configuration file is installed in the \fI/etc\fR directory, but 
could be installed elsewhere (see the \-c \fIconffile\fR command line option).  
The file format is similar to other Unix configuration files - comments begin 
with a # character and extend to the end of the line; blank lines are ignored.

Configuration commands consist of an initial keyword followed by a list of 
arguments, some of which may be optional, separated by whitespace.  Commands 
may not be continued over multiple lines. Arguments may be host names, host 
addresses written in numeric, dotted-quad form, integers, floating point 
numbers (when specifying times in seconds) and text strings.  Optional 
arguments are delimited by [ ] in the following descriptions, while 
alternatives are separated by |.  The notation [ ... ] means an optional, 
indefinite repetition of the last item before the [ ... ].

Following is a description of the configuration commands in NTPv4.  There are 
two classes of commands, configuration commands that configure an association 
with a remote server, peer or reference clock, and auxiliary commands that 
specify environmental variables that control various related operations.
.SS "Configuration Commands"
The various modes are determined by the command keyword and the required IP 
address.  Addresses are classed by type as (s) a remote server or peer (IPv4 
class A, B and C), (b) the broadcast address of a local interface, (m) a 
multicast address (IPv4 class D), or (r) a reference clock address 
(127.127.x.x).  The options that can be used with these commands are listed 
below.

If the Basic Socket Interface Extensions for IPv6 (RFC-2553) is detected, 
support for the IPv6 address family is generated in addition to the default 
support of the IPv4 address family.  IPv6 addresses can be identified by the 
presence of colons ":" in the address field.  IPv6 addresses can be used 
almost everywhere where IPv4 addresses can be used, with the exception of 
reference clock addresses, which are always IPv4.  Note that in contexts where 
a host name is expected, a \-4 qualifier preceding the host name forces DNS 
resolution to the IPv4 namespace, while a \-6 qualifier forces DNS resolution 
to the IPv6 namespace.

There are three types of associations: persistent, preemptable and ephemeral. 
Persistent associations are mobilized by a configuration command and never 
demobilized.  Preemptable associations, which are new to NTPv4, are mobilized 
by a configuration command which includes the \fBprempt\fR flag and are 
demobilized by timeout or error.  Ephemeral associations are mobilized upon 
arrival of designated messages and demobilized by timeout or error.
.TP
.B server \fIaddress\fR [\fIoptions\fR ...]
.TP
.B peer \fIaddress\fR [\fIoptions\fR ...]
.TP
.B broadcast \fIaddress\fR [\fIoptions\fR ...]
.TP
.B manycastclient \fIaddress\fR [\fIoptions\fR ...]
These four commands specify the time server name or address to be used and the 
mode in which to operate.  The \fIaddress\fR can be either a DNS name or a IP 
address in dotted-quad notation.  Additional information on association 
behavior can be found in the Association Management page.
.RS
.TP
.B server 
For type s and r addresses (only), this command normally mobilizes a 
persistent client mode association with the specified remote server or local 
reference clock. If the preempt flag is specified, a preemptable association 
is mobilized instead. In client mode the client clock can synchronize to the 
remote server or local reference clock, but the remote server can never be 
synchronized to the client clock. This command should NOT be used for type b 
or m addresses.
.TP
.B peer 
For type s addresses (only), this command mobilizes a persistent 
symmetric-active mode association with the specified remote peer. In this mode 
the local clock can be synchronized to the remote peer or the remote peer can 
be synchronized to the local clock. This is useful in a network of servers 
where, depending on various failure scenarios, either the local or remote peer 
may be the better source of time. This command should NOT be used for type b, 
m or r addresses.
.TP
.B broadcast 
For type b and m addresses (only), this command mobilizes a persistent 
broadcast mode association. Multiple commands can be used to specify multiple 
local broadcast interfaces (subnets) and/or multiple multicast groups. Note 
that local broadcast messages go only to the interface associated with the 
subnet specified, but multicast messages go to all interfaces.

In broadcast mode the local server sends periodic broadcast messages to a 
client population at the \fIaddress\fR specified, which is usually the 
broadcast address on (one of) the local network(s) or a multicast address 
assigned to NTP. The IANA has assigned the multicast group address IPv4 
224.0.1.1 and IPv6 ff05::101 (site local) exclusively to NTP, but other 
nonconflicting addresses can be used to contain the messages within 
administrative boundaries. Ordinarily, this specification applies only to the 
local server operating as a sender; for operation as a broadcast client, see 
the \fBbroadcastclient\fR or \fBmulticastclient\fR commands below.
.TP
.B manycastclient 
For type m addresses (only), this command mobilizes a preemptable manycast 
client mode association for the multicast group address specified. In this 
mode a specific address must be supplied which matches the address used on the 
manycastserver command for the designated manycast servers. The NTP multicast 
address 224.0.1.1 assigned by the IANA should NOT be used, unless specific 
means are taken to avoid spraying large areas of the Internet with these 
messages and causing a possibly massive implosion of replies at the sender.

The \fBmanycastclient\fR command specifies that the host is to operate in 
client mode with the remote servers that are discovered as the result of 
broadcast/multicast messages. The client broadcasts a request message to the 
group address associated with the specified \fIaddress\fR and specifically 
enabled servers respond to these messages. The client selects the servers 
providing the best time and continues as with the server command. The 
remaining servers are discarded as if never heard.
.RE
.SS "Command Options"
.TP
.B autokey
All packets sent to and received from the server or peer are to include 
authentication fields encrypted using the autokey scheme described in the 
Authentication Options page.  This option is valid with all commands.
.TP
.B burst
When the server is reachable, send a burst of eight packets instead of the 
usual one.  The packet spacing is normally 2 s; however, the spacing between 
the first and second packets can be changed with the \fBcalldelay\fR command 
to allow additional time for a modem or ISDN call to complete.  This option is 
valid with only the \fBserver\fR command and is a recommended option with this 
command when the \fBmaxpoll\fR option is 11 or greater.
.TP
.B iburst
When the server is unreachable, send a burst of eight packets instead of the 
usual one.  The packet spacing is normally 2 s; however, the spacing between 
the first and second packets can be changed with the \fBcalldelay\fR command 
to allow additional time for a modem or ISDN call to complete.  This option is 
valid with only the \fBserver\fR command and is a recommended option with this 
command.
.TP
.B key \fIkey\fR
All packets sent to and received from the server or peer are to include 
authentication fields encrypted using the specified key identifier with values 
from 1 to 65534, inclusive.  The default is to include no encryption field. 
This option is valid with all commands.
.TP
.B minpoll \fIminpoll\fR, \fBmaxpoll\fR \fImaxpoll\fR
These options specify the minimum and maximum poll intervals for NTP messages, 
in seconds as a power of two.  The maximum poll interval defaults to 10 (1,024 
s), but can be increased by the maxpoll option to an upper limit of 17 (36.4 
h).  The minimum poll interval defaults to 6 (64 s), but can be decreased by 
the minpoll option to a lower limit of 4 (16 s).  These option are valid only 
with the \fBserver\fR and \fBpeer\fR commands.
.TP
.B mode \fIoption\fR
Pass the \fIoption\fR to a reference clock driver, where \fIoption\fR
is an integer in the range from 0 to 255, inclusive. This option is
valid only with type r addresses.
.TP
.B noselect 
Marks the server as unused, except for display purposes.  The server is 
discarded by the selection algorithm.  This option is valid only with the 
\fBserver\fR and \fBpeer\fR commands.
.TP
.B preempt 
Specifies the association as preemptable rather than the default persistent. 
This option is valied only with the \fBserver\fR command.
.TP
.B prefer
Marks the server as preferred.  All other things being equal, this host will 
be chosen for synchronization among a set of correctly operating hosts.  See 
the Mitigation Rules and the \fBprefer\fR Keyword page for further 
information.  This option is valid only with the \fBserver\fR and \fBpeer\fR 
commands.
.TP
.B true 
Force the association to assume truechimer status; that is, always survive the 
selection and clustering algorithms.  This option can be used with any 
association, but is most useful for reference clocks with large jitter on the 
serial port and precision pulse-per-second (PPS) signals.  Caution: this 
option defeats the algorithms designed to cast out falsetickers and can allow 
these sources to set the system clock.  This option is valid only with the 
\fBserver\fR and \fBpeer\fR commands.
.TP
.B ttl \fIttl\fR
This option is used only with broadcast server and manycast client modes.  It 
specifies the time-to-live \fIttl\fR to use on broadcast server and multicast 
server and the maximum \fIttl\fR for the expanding ring search with manycast 
client packets.  Selection of the proper value, which defaults to 127, is 
something of a black art and should be coordinated with the network 
administrator.
.TP
.B version \fIversion\fR
Specifies the version number to be used for outgoing NTP packets.  Versions 
1-4 are the choices, with version 4 the default.  This option is valid only 
with the \fBserver\fR, \fBpeer\fR and \fBbroadcast\fR commands.
.TP
.B xleave
Operate in interleaved mode (symmetric and broadcast modes only). (see
NTP Interleaved Modes)
.SS "Auxiliary Commands"
.TP
.B broadcastclient \fR[\fBnovolley\fR]
This command enables reception of broadcast server messages to any local 
interface (type b) address.  Ordinarily, upon receiving a message for the 
first time, the broadcast client measures the nominal server propagation delay 
using a brief client/server exchange with the server, after which it continues 
in listen-only mode.  If the \fBnovolley\fR keyword is present, the exchange 
is not used and the value specified in the \fBbroadcastdelay\fR command is 
used or, if the \fBbroadcastdelay\fR command is not used, the default 4.0 ms.  
Note that, in order to avoid accidental or malicious disruption in this mode, 
both the server and client should operate using symmetric key or public key 
authentication as described in the Authentication Options page.  Note that the 
\fBnovolley\fR keyword is incompatible with public key authentication.
.TP
.B manycastserver \fIaddress\fR [...]
This command enables reception of manycast client messages to the multicast 
group address(es) (type m) specified.  At least one address is required.  The 
NTP multicast address 224.0.1.1 assigned by the IANA should NOT be used, 
unless specific means are taken to limit the span of the reply and avoid a 
possibly massive implosion at the original sender.  Note that, in order to 
avoid accidental or malicious disruption in this mode, both the server and 
client should operate using symmetric key or public key authentication as 
described in the Authentication Options page.
.TP
.B multicastclient \fIaddress\fR [...]
This command enables reception of multicast server messages to the multicast 
group address(es) (type m) specified.  Upon receiving a message for the first 
time, the multicast client measures the nominal server propagation delay using 
a brief client/server exchange with the server, then enters the broadcast 
client mode, in which it synchronizes to succeeding multicast messages.  Note 
that, in order to avoid accidental or malicious disruption in this mode, both 
the server and client should operate using symmetric key or public key 
authentication as described in the Authentication Options page.
.SS "Authentication Commands"
.TP
.B autokey \fR[\fIlogsec\fR]
Specifies the interval between regenerations of the session key list
used with the autokey feature.  Note that the size of the key list for
each association depends on this interval and the current poll interval.
The default value is 12 (4096 s or about 1.1 hours).  For poll intervals
above the specified interval, a session key list with a single entry
will be regenerated for every message sent.
.TP
.B revoke \fR[\fIlogsec\fR]
Specifies the interval between recomputations of the private value used
with the autokey feature, which ordinarily requires an expensive public-
key computation.  The default value is 12 (65,536 s or about 18 hours).
For poll intervals above the specified interval, a new private value
will be recomputed for every message sent.
.SS "Miscellaneous Options"
.TP
.B driftfile \fIdriftfile\fR
This command specifies the name of the file use to record the frequency
offset of the local clock oscillator.  If the file exists, it is read at
startup in order to set the initial frequency offset and then updated
once per hour with the current frequency offset computed by the daemon.
If the file does not exist or this command is not given, the initial
frequency offset is assumed to be zero.  In this case, it may take some hours
for the frequency to stabilize and the residual timing errors to
subside.

The file format consists of a single line containing a single floating
point number, which records the frequency offset measured in
parts-per-million (PPM).  The file is updated by first writing the
current drift value into a temporary file and then renaming this file to
replace the old version.  This implies that ntpd must have write
permission for the directory the drift file is located in, and that file
system links, symbolic or otherwise, should be avoided.
.TP
.B enable \fR[auth | bclient | calibrate | kernel | monitor | ntp | pps | stats]
.TP
.B disable \fR[auth | bclient | calibrate | kernel | monitor | ntp | pps | stats]
Provides a way to enable or disable various server options.  Flags not
mentioned are unaffected.  Note that all of these flags can be
controlled remotely using the \fBntpdc\fR utility program.
.RS
.TP
.B auth
Enables the server to synchronize with unconfigured peers only if the peer has 
been correctly authenticated using either public key or private key 
cryptography.  The default for this flag is enable.
.TP
.B bclient
Enables the server to listen for a message from a broadcast or multicast 
server, as in the \fBmulticastclient\fR command with default address.  The 
default for this flag is disable.
.TP
.B calibrate
Enables the calibrate feature for reference clocks.  The default for this flag 
is disable.
.TP
.B kernel
Enables the kernel time discipline, if available.  The default for this flag 
is enable if support is available, otherwise disable.
.TP
.B monitor
Enables the monitoring facility.  See the \fBntpdc\fR program and the 
\fBmonlist\fR command or further information.  The default for this flag is 
enable.
.TP
.B ntp
Enables time and frequency discipline.  In effect, this switch opens and 
closes the feedback loop, which is useful for testing.  The default for this 
flag is enable.
.TP
.B pps 
Enables the pulse-per-second (PPS) signal when frequency and time is 
disciplined by the precision time kernel modifications.  See the A Kernel 
Model for Precision Timekeeping page for further information.  The default for 
this flag is disable.
.TP
.B stats
Enables the statistics facility.  See the Monitoring Options page for further 
information.  The default for this flag is disable.
.RE
.TP
.B includefile \fIincludefile\fR
This command allows additional configuration commands to be included from a 
separate file.  Include files may be nested to a depth of five; upon reaching 
the end of any include file, command processing resumes in the previous 
configuration file.  This option is useful for sites that run \fBntpd\fR on 
multiple hosts, with (mostly) common options (e.g., a restriction list).
.TP
.B interface \fR[\fBlisten\fR | \fBignore\fR | \fBdrop\fR] [\fBall\fR | \fBipv4\fR | \fBipv6\fR | \fBwildcard\fR | \fIname\fR | \fIaddress\fR[/\fIprefixlen\fR]]
This command controls which network addresses \fBntpd\fR opens, and
whether input is dropped without processing. The first parameter
determines the action for addresses which match the second
parameter. That parameter specifies a class of addresses, or a
specific interface name, or an address. In the address case,
\fIprefixlen\fR determines how many bits must match for this rule to
apply. \fBignore\fR prevents opening matching addresses, \fBdrop\fR
causes \fBntpd\fR to open the address and drop all received packets
without examination. Multiple \fBinterface\fR commands can be
used. The last rule which matches a particular address determines the
action for it. \fBinterface\fR commands are disabled if any \fB\-I\fR,
\fB\-\-interface\fR, \fB\-L\fR, or \fB\-\-novirtualips\fR command-line
options are used. If none of those options are used and no
\fBinterface\fR actions are specified in the configuration file, all
available network addresses are opened. The \fBnic\fR command is an
alias for \fBinterface\fR.
.SH FILES
/etc/ntp.conf
.SH NOTES
Note that this manual page shows only the most important configuration commands.  
The full documentation (see below) contains more details.
.SH BUGS
The syntax checking is not picky; some combinations of ridiculous and even 
hilarious options and modes may not be detected.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ntpd (8)
.PP
The complete documentation can be found at \fI/usr/share/doc/ntp\-doc/html/ntpd.html#cfg\fR in the package ntp\-doc.
